# FastAPI Crud

#### This sample uses FastAPI, Pydantic models, MongoDB as database and docker.

## Overview
When the application is started, a JSON file is read and the data gets stored into the mongodb database which can then be queried, updated, and deleted using the provided endpoints.

## Structure
- `main.py`: initialization of FastAPI, api's creation, data is read from JSON file and stored in the database.
- `models`: Contain `models.py` which holds custom schema for the data stored in the database.
- `serialization`: Contain `serializer.py` which help in serializing the bson data retrieved from database.
- `Dockerfile`: For building the docker image for our application.
- `docker-compose.yml`: Used to define two services. Backend and db. *Backend* for our application with the dockerfile and *db* for the database which uses mongo image.
- `requirements.txt`: Contains all the dependencies to run the application.

## Endpoints
- GET `/docs` - OpenAPI documentation (generated by FastAPI)
- GET `/` - list all available cryto currencies
- GET `/{id}` - get a single crypto by its unique ID
- POST `/` - create a new crypto entry
- PUT `/{id}` - update an existing record, provided the ID
- DELETE `/{id}` - delete an existing record

## Requirements
- Python >=3.8
- Docker

## Run the application
Having docker and python installed, running the below command will bring up our application in detached mode.\
`docker-compose up --detach`

To stop the application, run the below command.\
`docker-compose down`
